Step 1 :- first find out if you need a work permit or not.
	 		
		Result:- I Need a work permit for Canada	

Step 2:- How to apply for the work permit
		
	There are specific requirements you need to meet depending on where you are when you apply for your work permit.

	But regardless of where you apply or which type of work permit you apply for, you must

prove to an officer that you will leave Canada when your work permit expires

show that you have enough money to take care of yourself and your family members during your stay in Canada and to return home

obey the law and have no record of criminal activity (we may ask you to give us a police clearance certificate)

not be a danger to Canada’s security

be in good health and have a medical exam, if needed

not plan to work for an employer listed with the status “ineligible” on the list of employers who failed to comply with the conditions

not plan to work for an employer who, on a regular basis, offers striptease, erotic dance, escort services or erotic massages
 and
give the officer any other documents they ask for to prove you can enter the country.

Step 3:- I need to give my bio-metrics
	
	I can only give my biometrics after i get a letter from canada that tells you what to do.
To get this letter, pay the biometrics fee when i submit my application.

bio metric-fee is  CAD $85.

Step-4:- give your bio-metrics

After you pay the biometrics fee, you’ll get a letter confirming that you need to give your biometrics and where you can go. You need to bring this letter when you give your biometrics. You also need to bring your valid passport.

How fast you get the letter depends on how you apply and when you pay for your biometrics fees. Answer a few questions to find out.

How will you apply? (required)

At a Visa application centre (VAC)

You must book an appointment to give your biometrics.

You can then give your biometrics when you submit your application at the VAC.

You don’t need a letter.

If you submit your application online at a VAC

If you pay the biometrics fee when you submit your application

You’ll get the letter in your account message box within 24 hours of applying.

We’ll send you an email to let you know that you have a new message.

You must book an appointment to give your biometrics once you get this letter.

You can then go back to the VAC to give your biometrics (bring your letter).

If you pay the biometrics fee after you submit your application

It can take several days before you get the letter.

We’ll send you an email to let you know that you have a new message.

You must book an appointment to give your biometrics once you get this letter.

You can then go back to the VAC to give your biometrics (bring your letter).

3. Go to an official biometrics collection service point

You must give your biometrics in person.

You need to make an appointment to give your biometrics.


	   