How to apply for a student visa and study abroad with offcampus permit.

Who can work off campus
----------------------

  You and your employer must make sure you can work off campus without a work permit before
  you start working. If you start working off campus but don’t meet the requirements, you may 
  have to leave Canada.

  You can only start working in Canada when your study program has started. You can’t work
  before you start your studies.

  If you’re able to work during your studies, it’ll say so in the conditions on your study 
  permit.

Eligibility requirements
------------------------
    
    You can work off campus without a work permit if you meet all of these requirements:

    you’re a full-time student at a designated learning institution (DLI)
    you’re enrolled in
        a post-secondary academic, vocational or professional training program or
        a secondary-level vocational training program (Quebec only)
    your study program
        is at least 6 months long and
        leads to a degree, diploma or certificate
    you’ve started studying
    you have a Social Insurance Number (SIN)

If you’re a part-time student

You can work off campus only if:

    you meet all of the requirements above and 
    you’re only studying part-time, instead of full-time, because:
        you’re in the last semester of your study program and you don’t need a full course 
	load to complete your program and you were a full-time student in your program in 
	Canada, up until your last semester

If you’re on an authorized leave

    If you’re on an authorized leave from your studies, or you’re switching schools and you’re 
    not studying, you can’t work off campus. You can only return to work once you’re back to 
    studying.



Get a Social Insurance Number to work in Canada
-----------------------------------------------

    A SIN is a 9 digit number that the Government of Canada gives you. You need one to work
    in Canada.To apply for a SIN to work off campus, you must have 1 of these conditions printed
    on your study permit:

    May work 20 hours per week off campus or full-time during regular breaks if meeting criteria
    outlined in paragraph 186(v) of the Immigration and Refugee Protection Regulations.
    

    May accept employment on or off campus if meeting eligibility criteria, per paragraph 
    R186(f), (v) or (w) and must cease working if no longer meeting these criteria.

If your study permit doesn’t have work conditions on it
-------------------------------------------------------

    You can ask to have these conditions added if you’re eligible to work off campus. There’s
    no fee to add these conditions to your permit.

    You’ll need to request an amendment to your study permit before you can apply for a SIN
    from Service Canada.


How many hours you can work off campus
-------------------------------------
    During regular school terms/semesters
    You can work up to 20 hours per week.

During scheduled breaks in the school year
------------------------------------------

    You can work full-time if you’re on a scheduled break, such as winter and summer holidays,
    or a fall or spring reading week. You’re free to work overtime or work 2 part-time jobs 
    that add up to a higher than usual number of hours.

    You must be a full-time student both before and after the break to work full-time.

    You can’t work during a break that comes before you start your very first school semester.
    How many hours count as full-time work

    There is no set number of hours per week that counts as ‘full-time’ work. However, your
    employer(s) must follow all provincial laws on overtime pay and time between shifts.


If your program doesn’t have scheduled breaks
---------------------------------------------

 Working after you complete your study program

After you complete your study program, there are 2 ways you may be able to work full-time:

    you already applied for a work permit before your study permit expired or
    you’re starting a new study program

You need to meet all the requirements listed below to work full-time. If we refuse your work
or study permit application, you must stop working and leave Canada.

If you already applied for a work permit

You can work full-time if you meet all of these requirements:

    You were already able to work off campus during your studies
    You applied for a work permit or post-graduation work permit (PGWP) before your study 
    permit expired
    You’re waiting for a decision on your work permit application
  


